Revisiting Compose CLI Env Vars page (#15063)
docker/docker.github.io: compose/reference/envvars.md

title: Compose CLI environment variables
---

In this section you can find the list of pre-defined environment variables you can use to configure the Docker Compose command-line behavior.  
**See also** [Declare default environment variables in file](../env-file.md) to check how to declare default environment variables in an environment file named `.env` placed in the project directory.

## COMPOSE\_PROJECT\_NAME

Sets the project name. This value is prepended along with the service name to
the container's name on startup.

For example, if your project name is `myapp` and it includes two services `db` and `web`, 
then Compose starts containers named `myapp-db-1` and `myapp-web-1` respectively.

* **Defaults to:** the `basename` of the project directory.

**See also** the [command-line options overview](index.md#command-options-overview-and-help) and [using `-p` to specify a project name](index.md#use--p-to-specify-a-project-name).

## COMPOSE\_FILE

Specifies the path to a Compose file. Specifying multiple Compose files is supported.

> * **Default behavior:** If not provided, Compose looks for a file named `docker-compose.yml` in the current directory and, if not found, then Compose searches each parent directory recursively until a file by that name is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Default behavior:** If not provided, Compose looks for a file named `compose.yaml` or `docker-compose.yaml` in the current directory and, if not found, then Compose searches each parent directory recursively until a file by that name is found.
```

Author: Committing your suggestion, thanks!

Sets the URL of the Docker daemon. 
* **Defaults to:** `unix:///var/run/docker.sock`(same as with the Docker client).

## DOCKER\_TLS\_VERIFY

See `DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY` on the [Use the Docker command line](../../../engine/reference/commandline/cli/#environment-variables){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} page.

## DOCKER\_CERT\_PATH

Configures the path to the `ca.pem`, `cert.pem`, and `key.pem` files used for TLS verification.  
* **Defaults to:** `~/.docker`.

See, `DOCKER_CERT_PATH` on the [Use the Docker command line](../../../engine/reference/commandline/cli/#environment-variables){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"} page.

## COMPOSE\_CONVERT\_WINDOWS\_PATHS

When enabled, Compose performs path conversion from Windows-style to Unix-style in volume definitions.

* **Supported values:** 
    * `true` or `1`, to enable,
    * `false` or `0`, to disable.
* **Defaults to:** `0`.

## COMPOSE\_PATH\_SEPARATOR

Specifies a different path separator for items listed in `COMPOSE_FILE`.

* **Defaults to:**
    * On Mac and Linux to `:`,
    * On Windows to`;`.

## COMPOSE\_IGNORE\_ORPHANS

When enabled, Compose doesn't try to detect orphaned containers for the project.

> * **Supported values:** 
>     * `true` or `1`, to enable,
>     * `false` or `0`, to disable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Supported values:** 
    * `true` or `1`, to enable,
    * `false` or `0`, to disable.
* **Defaults to:** `0`.
```

Author: Committing your suggestion, thanks!

title: Compose CLI environment variables
---

In this section you can find the list of pre-defined environment variables you can use to configure the Docker Compose command-line behavior.

**See also** [Declare default environment variables in file](../env-file.md) to check how to declare default environment variables in an environment file named `.env` placed in the project directory.

## COMPOSE\_PROJECT\_NAME

> (Optional) Sets the project name. This value is prepended along with the service name to

Reviewer 2: The `(Optional)` is not relevant here, since all of the variables are optional.

## COMPOSE\_PROFILES

Specifies one or more profiles to be enabled on `compose-up` execution. 
Services with matching profiles are started *as well as any services for which no profile has been defined*.

For example, calling `docker-compose up`with `COMPOSE_PROFILES=frontend` selects services with the 
`frontend` profile as well as any services without a profile specified.

* **Default separator:**  specify a list of profiles using a comma as separator.
Example: `COMPOSE_PROFILES=frontend,debug`
This example would enable all services matching both the `frontend` and `debug` profiles *and* services without a profile.

**See also** [Using profiles with Compose](../profiles.md) and the [`--profile` command-line option](index.md#use---profile-to-specify-one-or-more-active-profiles).

## COMPOSE\_API\_VERSION

Specifies the API version of current environment. 
The Docker API only supports requests from clients reporting a specific version. 

If you receive a **client and server don't have same version** error while using `docker-compose`, 
you can work around this error by setting this environment variable. 

> Set this version value in order to match the server version.

Reviewer 2: Deprecated on V2.

By default the API version is negotiated with the server. To set it, please use `DOCKER_API_VERSION` instead.

Author: Added deprecation notice and additional info.

**Important**

> **This setting is only intended as a workaround and it is not officially supported.**
>
> Set and use this variable only as a last resort workaround when you need
> to *temporarily* run Docker with a mismatch between the client and server version. 
> For example, when you can upgrade the client but need to wait to upgrade the server.
>
> This mismatch between server and client prevents some features from working properly. 
> What features fail when using this configuration depends on the
> Docker client and server versions in question. 
>
> It is highly recommended that you upgrade client and server and remove this setting as 
> as soon as possible. Also, perform these actions to check if any problems you might 

> > be having are resolved before notifying support.

Author: Removing the text since we're now using a Docker env var. Leaving the reference for that var to help the user.

## DOCKER\_HOST

Sets the URL of the Docker daemon. 
* **Defaults to:** `unix:///var/run/docker.sock`(same as with the Docker client).

## DOCKER\_TLS\_VERIFY

When set to anything other than an empty string, enables TLS communication with
the Docker daemon.

## DOCKER\_CERT\_PATH

Configures the path to the `ca.pem`, `cert.pem`, and `key.pem` files used for TLS verification.

* **Defaults to:** `~/.docker`.

## COMPOSE\_HTTP\_TIMEOUT

Defines the timeout period (in seconds) for requests to the Docker daemon after which Compose considers the requests have failed.

> * **Defaults to:** 60 seconds.

Reviewer 2: Deprecated

Author: Assuming it's the last one from the fragment above, COMPOSE_HTTP_TIMEOUT. 
Added deprecation notice.

## COMPOSE\_TLS\_VERSION

Defines which TLS version is used for TLS communication with the Docker daemon. 

* **Supported values:** `TLSv1`, `TLSv1_1`, `TLSv1_2`.

> * **Defaults to:** `TLSv1`.

Reviewer 2: Deprecated

Author: Added a deprecation notice. Assuming it is better to remove them all in a posterior PR.

## COMPOSE\_CONVERT\_WINDOWS\_PATHS

When enabled, Compose performs path conversion from Windows-style to Unix-style in volume definitions.

* **Supported values:** 
    * `true` or `1`, to enable, 
    * `false` or `0`, to disable.

* **Defaults to:** `0`

## COMPOSE\_PATH\_SEPARATOR

Specifies a different path separator for items listed in `COMPOSE_FILE`. 

> Default path separator in Linux and macOS the path separator is `:`, on Windows it is `;`.

Reviewer 2: This block diverges from the other  `* **Defaults to:**` blocks

Author: Updates.

## COMPOSE\_FORCE\_WINDOWS\_HOST

When enabled, volume declarations using the [short syntax](../compose-file/compose-file-v3.md#short-syntax-3) are parsed assuming the host path is a Windows path, even if Compose is
running on a UNIX-based system.

* **Supported values:** 
    * `true` or `1`, to enable, 

>     * `false` or `0`, to disable.

Reviewer 2: Not implemented on V2

Author: Added deprecation notice.

## COMPOSE\_IGNORE\_ORPHANS

When enabled Compose doesn't try to detect orphaned containers for the project.

* **Supported values:** 
    * `true` or `1`, to enable, 
    * `false` or `0`, to disable.

## COMPOSE\_PARALLEL\_LIMIT

Sets a limit for the number of operations Compose can execute in parallel.

* **Supported values:** minimum value is `2`.

> * **Defaults to:** `64`.

Reviewer 2: This variable is not implemented in V2

Author: (Assumed COMPOSE_PARALLEL_LIMIT) Added deprecation notice.

## COMPOSE\_INTERACTIVE\_NO\_CLI

When enabled Compose doesn't attempt to use the Docker CLI for interactive `run` and `exec` operations.

**Note:** on Windows the CLI is required for `run`and `exec` operations, so this option doesn't change the behavior of Compose on Windows.

* **Supported values:** 
    * `true` or `1`, to enable,

>     * `false` or `0`, to disable.

Reviewer 2: Deprecated on V2. 

As V2 now uses the vendored code of [Docker CLI](https://github.com/docker/cli).

Author: Added deprecation notice.

## COMPOSE\_DOCKER\_CLI\_BUILD

Configure whether to use the Compose python client for building images or the native docker cli. 
By default, Compose uses the Docker CLI to perform builds,
which allows you to use [BuildKit](../../develop/develop-images/build_enhancements.md#to-enable-buildkit-builds) to perform builds.

> Set `COMPOSE_DOCKER_CLI_BUILD=0` to disable native builds, and to use the built-in python client.

Author: Added deprecation notice.
